In this lesson, we'll take a look
at how to connect Google ads to GA4
and all the benefits
this brings.
By connecting ads to GA 4,
the data will flow
both ways between the products.
This way, you'll be able to see
your Google ads campaigns
in the acquisition Overview
report, access new Google ads dimensions
in the user acquisition report,
import analytics
conversions into your Google ads account,
and enhance your Google ads remarketing
with
analytics audience data.
Additionally, you'll be able
to see your Google ads campaigns
in the advertising workspace,
including the attribution reports.
The process of linking Google ads
to property it's very similar
to connecting search
console.
First, go under the admin section
and Scroll down in the properties section
where you'll
find the Google ads links.
Click on it and when
the screen opens.
Click on the link button.
Next, click on choose
Google add accounts.
And here you'll see all the add accounts
connected to your current Google account.
If you don't see anything here,
please make sure that
you have administrative
access
to Google ads with your current
Google account.
Just to think, you should know,
if you link to a Google
ads manager account,
any data
that you import from analytics
will be available available to you.
And to you all of your client accounts.
Next, select the account
and click confirm.
Then click next and at this point
you can choose to disable
personalised advertising.
Basically if you disable this,
then GA4 audience list
and remarketing event parameters
will not be shared
with connected Google Ads account.
If you disable auto tagging,
Google Analytics will not associate
Google ads data with
customer clicks and the reports
will have less data to show you.
I would suggest you leave both settings on
unless you know exactly
what you're doing
and know that you don't
need this data.
After you click next you will see
the summary
and if everything looks OK,
just click
submit.
When you are done linking
both accounts,
you'll automatically start seeing
Google ads
data in your Google Analytics reports.
Note that this may take up
to 24 hours before this data
is actually visible.
So you can only make around 400
connexion per GA4 property,
but that should be enough
for most cases.
But to be able to take action
on this data in your Google ads,
you will need to also
import conversions
or add audiences or do both.
So let's take a look at this
and how you can do this.
Go to your Google ads account
and we'll start by importing
the conversions.
If you haven't created any conversions
yet in your G A4 account,
you should do that first.
Then in the tools.
And settings menu,
under the measurement section,
click on conversions.
In the left corner,
click on the new conversion action,
then click import.
Here you'll select the GA for property
and select whether you're importing
from Firebase
or Web data streams.
After that, select all the conversions
you wish to import and click import.
Then click continue.
And finally.
Done.
When you do this,
you'll be able to see GA4 conversion
data in Google ads.
But give Google ads smart bidding
access to the data
that will help its optimise your
bids.
Just a small warning,
if you have your UA conversion actions
already imported, then Google
will by default set your GA 4 conversions
as secondary
to prevent counting
the same event
twice, and you'll want
to make them primary.
Before Universal Analytics goes away.
Next thing we'll do is set
up the audience source
to use in your remarketing campaigns.
You want to click the tools again
and settings menu,
and under the shared library section,
click on the audience manager.
Then in the left menu,
click on your data sources.
And in the GA4 and firebase cards,
click link to Google Analytics
and Firebase button.
Next, click Link next to each
property or project
that you want to add to your Google
ads account.
And you are basically done.
Once you do this,
you will be able
to expand your reach, manage, monitor,
and troubleshoot
your audience sources,
as well as view tag hits,
active parameters,
and data lists created
for each audience source.
This is it for this lecture.
And I'll see you
in the next one.